learning how to drive opens up the world
in a whole new way giving you an
incredible sense of freedom but with
this freedom comes responsibility do you
know what they are let's find out 7 be
aware of blind spot when driving a car
whether you're on a busy highway or an
empty street blind spots are a very real
problem one of the most common blind
spots is behind you on your right side
your side mirror on the right along with
your rear-view mirror has a hard time
seeing past the back corner of your car
this makes it easy to miss a car on your
right just beside you when you're
changing lanes on the right you can even
slide into another car if you're not
careful to take an extra look or two
over your right shoulder a lot of people
have their sideview mirrors set up in
such a way that blind spots are more of
a problem than they have to be to make
blind spots in your mirrors less of a
problem here's a simple trick adjust
them so you can never see your own car
in them what does that mean exactly this
specific angling of your mirrors ensures
that there's no overlap between what you
see in the side mirrors or rearview
mirror now any cars passing on either
side of you will always be in one of
your mirrors until you see them with
your own eyes in front of you blind
spots be God while this is a pretty
effective trick for eliminating blind
spots while driving it's always smart to
take another glance over your shoulder
to be sure before switching lanes better
to be safe than sorry
six save the techno music for walking
not driving what do you like to listen
to when you're on the road
classic rock podcasts if techno music is
your go-to soundtrack at the wheel you
may want to rethink your musical choice
listening to techno music can make you a
worse driver no it's not because you
can't resist the urge to dance a study
conducted by Professor Warren Brodsky
revealed that music with a fast tempo
turns people into more reckless drivers
out of 28 drivers tested those listening
to music with a tempo of up to 120 beats
per minute at a loud volume or more
likely to run red lights and get into
accidents so while it may not be as fun
rocking out to Mozart's best hits on
your next road trip it may be a safer
bet if you do choose to listen to
fast-paced music during your drives try
not to blast the volume too loudly
make sure you stay extra focused on
what's in front of you 5 adjust your
rear view mirror at night did you know
that your rear view mirror has a
nighttime mode yeah I didn't either many
people don't know about this hidden
feature and while it doesn't seem like
it matters all that much it can keep you
safer when driving at night this small
adjustment helps you see the headlights
behind you more clearly at night to see
if your car's rear view mirror has this
nighttime mode simply tilt back the
little tab below the mirror easy right
just don't forget to adjust it back to
normal when you're driving the next day
for don't neglect your emergency brake
your emergency brake is named as such
for a reason you only have to use it in
emergencies while the name suggests this
brake shouldn't be used on an everyday
basis you should get in the habit of
using it even when you don't necessarily
have to the emergency brake is also
referred to as a parking brake you
should use it more often because the
steel cables it's connected to can rust
over time when it's not used when you do
really need it on a steep hill it might
stick and fail to work correctly and
that can lead to another kind of
emergency situation
you've been warned three respect
car horn a ticket even if you're a
courteous driver you've probably been
hugged at on the road before
[Music]
or perhaps you honk your horn at someone
else why don't people use their blinkers
when switching lanes anyway whether
someone is in your way or driving
incredibly recklessly a sudden onset of
road rage can leave you laying on the
horn for more than a few seconds at a
time but depending on what kind of
offense is taking place you should be
hitting your horn a certain way this is
known as car horn educate a quick beep
this means you're just trying to create
awareness perhaps you are in someone's
blind spot and they're about to cut you
off as they switch into your lane think
of it as a harmless hey I'm here I exist
try a longer beep this can be used if
you are in immediate danger and need to
get the attention of another driver
maybe they're making a wide turn and
didn't look to see you coming in their
direction it's important to note that
you really shouldn't be using this horn
signal unless you really really need to
this jarring sound can fluster other
drivers around you and cause them to get
into accidents in some cases it's simply
unnecessary like when you're sitting in
bumper-to-bumper traffic and they're
frustrated slamming down on the horn
won't get everyone to move magically it
will just add more aggravation to an
already unpleasant situation to make the
most of your almost empty gas tank
you're driving along going about your
day when suddenly you hear a ping you're
almost on empty there's not much scarier
than driving on an empty tank without a
gas station in sight but if you do ever
find yourself miles away from the
nearest gas station with a nearly empty
tank there are little things you can do
to extend your gas mileage even if it's
just a few minutes worth
start by closing your windows this can
reduce wind resistance which is easier
on your mileage you can also try not to
brake and accelerate with a lot of force
and if all else fails try to flag
someone down to help you push the car to
the gas station or take the time to fill
up your tank ahead of time one gained
control of your car losing control of
your car while on the road is never an
enjoyable experience but if you are
armed with the knowledge about how to
regain control you should be fine it's
also important to stay calm so that you
can think clearly if this happens if
there are a lot of other people on the
road clear thoughts and quick actions
can help save your life and the lives
around you here are some quick tips
about how to regain control on the road
if you are driving an automatic car if
your car begins to drift resist the urge
to slam on the brakes as this can make
matters worse instead turn your wheels
in the direction the back of your car is
sliding eventually you'll gain traction
or at least veer off to the side enough
to stop the car if you're driving a
stick shift car don't slam on the brakes
if your car is rear-wheel pull back on
the throttle and like the automatic car
VR in the direction you're drifting if
your car is front-wheel simply pull the
throttle up once you've gained traction
and are out of the drift turn the wheels
to the front position they were in
initially if you don't do this you could
start a whole new drift
as with most situations out in the world
use common sense while driving even if
you don't know every trick and tip in
the book safe driving relies a lot on
your awareness of your surroundings and
smart thinking
drive safely out there everyone what is
your favorite driving tip that you never
learned in driving school tell us in the
comments don't forget to give this video
a like share with your friends and click
Subscribe stay on the bright side
[Music]
you